Now what we're going to do
is review some validation.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
go into we're clear the server.
We're gonna go up a directory.
We're gonna go CD, food app dot and
then it's gonna be
the final validation and
I am going to start up a local server.
So yarn Dev, and
I'm also gonna open it up,
so I'm gonna open up a new tab
code now if we go back here,
we're gonna talk about vuelidate.
So, let's finish up the cart.
We added the cart to the link in the menu,
and
then we're gonna review
validation In vuelidate.
The way that vuelidate works is that
it kind of connects to V model,
which is really interesting.
It gives you some computed properties.
So it what the library does is not
just like hand you like, okay,
everything's validated for you.
What it does is it gives you a few
things that you can do that.
To check some things and then you
show what you need to do to show and
hide things.
So if we go to our
Nuxt Food App that's online and
we look at this piece, what we wanna
make sure of is that we can't add
to the cart unless some add on was added,
right?
We wanna make sure that
the user does that.
So if I add to the cart,
we're gonna pipe through that app toast.
Remember, we had that app
toast component with a slot.
Where we could say like, okay, anything,
any content that we have goes into
the slot so instead of saying, order
submitted and, go to checkout restaurants,
we can say, please select options and
Add Ons before continuing.
And so now I can add something here and
add to the cart, and
now it's the order added.
And that cart adds to that.
So let's look at these.
Let's look at the validation
here in the vuelidate.
I have this article called form validation
and under an hour with vuelidate, and
in it, I have some like really
basic examples if I open this
really basic example in code sandbox,
and this is, vucli,
not Nuxt, we are importing vuelidate and
view use vuelidate.
But if you wanted to do this and next what
you would do is create a plugin that says
import vuelidate from vuelidate and
view, use vuelidate and
I'll show you that in
a plugin in just a moment.
And now if we have this app,
what we're gonna do is we're
gonna import required from
vuelidate validators.
And there's a bunch of different options.
There's like min length and you can,
state a bunch of different things
that you're looking for in that, in this
case, all I'm looking for is required.
So I have.
Data return name is an empty string.
And typically, what we would do is V model
and that has a relationship with name.
But instead of saying v model name,
what I'm gonna say is $v.name.$model.
And what that allows me to say is look in
another a new area called validations.
For this name property,
if I open this in another window,
what I will see here in view is typically,
we have this name, if I write like.
Sarah.
I'm given my name as Sarah.
But what I'm really attaching
to is this computed object.
In this computed object,
we've got this V dollar sign, and
it has a bunch of things that
it's going to let you know.
So that first V object is gonna tell you
a bunch of things about the whole thing.
So anything in that form,
anything in that component, a whole thing.
So I find out if it's dirty and dirty and
vuelidate means if I've touched any
inputs at all, then it will be true.
Do I have any errors that's false,
and a few other pieces here,
but that name that name goes
into this one in particular.
So if you have multiple fields, so let's
say you have a form and a component with
just tons of fields, this first v
dollar sign is gonna be everything.
And then that name is gonna be just
the things that you're looking for here.
You can see we have the model is Sara.
As you you might have met and notice, and
then we have weather we
have errors are dirty.
And you could see how this would be really
useful especially if you did something
like the model dot lazy.
We talked about those modifiers.
So if we're writing things in forms, and
we wanna show something conditionally,
you can access that piece and
show conditionally based on those pieces.
Some things and you can,
have it wait to validate until the model
lazy don't do it until they're done typing
because it is kind of annoying
when you're filling out a form and
like the validations going off like, your
name isn't allowed to be one character.
I'm like I'm not done yet.
[LAUGH] So it keeps that in mind as
well so basically you're able to build,
these kind of complex
experiences where you say
something like,
this field is required like I can.
I'm really just manually writing
that right I'm going into it.
It's very flexible this way.
We're going into.
In here and I have that input.
But I also say, have these like
this is required that I show
conditionally on a V if or
if it doesn't have the right min length.
So you can see, I have I'm
capturing some form responses here.
And I have I'm bringing in required and
min length here.
And so I'm saying like, your name
is required, the min length is two.
And then you can show
these different errors,
depending on the errors
that you have in the app.
So it's pretty powerful for building
these conditional pieces of logic.
So if we wanted to do that on our app,
and we totally do,
because we don't want people
to be able to like order tacos
without saying they're a carnie
Asada taco or a pojo taco or
something like that, then we can go into
our ID, our underscore ID page and we can.
I'm in the wrong one.
Let me open up the right one.
This is the final validation.
So if we go into the components.
And we go into the pages,
item ID What you'll notice here is
that instead of the V model
connecting to item options,
we're connecting to dollar
sign item options model.
And if we go down here we have the import
required from you vuelidate validators and
then I have this validations object where
I'm saying okay for item options and
item Add Ons, those are the two
things that we wanna make required.
And I'm making them required.
So we've got item map,
item options and item Add Ons.
You have to name them.
It's kind of like watch where you have to
name them the same thing as the model that
you're looking for.
And so there we go.
For each one of these for
the add on we have,
we modeled the dollar
sign item Add Ons .model.
And here dot model if we look at this
in our nuxt food app if
we do our local host and
we go to our Soup Dumplings.
We can see here in our view area,
we can like go into the whoops.
In our view area in side the next page
item ID you see all of these pieces of
the data that you're used to, and
then you see this V dollar sign.
And you can see that
main area that we said,
dirty is false because I
haven't touched it yet.
And invalid and
we're like checking for these pieces.
And then we can also dive into each
one in specific the current item.
And the combine and
all of these kind of pieces off of that.
So then what we wanna do is we don't want
to submit the form unless we're okay.
So what we wanna do is we wanna have this
new thing called errors equals false.
So we wanna say there are no errors, yet.
But when we hit that- we're not
validating anything until someone hits
that add to cart button.
As soon as that hits that add to
cart button we are going to check if
something is invalid.
And if anything,
if there's errors for add on air or
if there's errors for option error,
and then we're gonna ask like,
if there's errors for Add Onns or
option error than this.
This dot errors equals true, but if not,
this dot errors equals false and
cart submitted equals true and
you can go ahead and
store this dot store
to commit Add To Cart.
So we're keeping it from adding
like being able to add to the cart
until that's done until we have
validated that that exists.
So now if we go back to our code pen
We have now reviewed validation,
[LAUGH] cool.